docs(tutorial): ubuntu instance creation (#260)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-ubuntu-20-04-instance-scaleway-elements/index.mdx

1. Run the following command to update the APT package index:
    ```
    apt update
    ```

2. Upgrade the packages already installed on your Instance to the latest version available in Ubuntu's repositories by running the following command:
    ```
    apt upgrade 
    ```

To install additonal software packages, use the `apt install` command:
```
apt install packagename
```

<Message type="tip">

For more information about how to use the APT package manager, run the following command: `apt help`, or refer to our documentation on [how to manage packages](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/dedibox/dedicated-servers/how-to/manage-packages/).

</Message>

## Adding regular users on Ubuntu 

As previously mentioned, we do not recommend always connecting to your Instance as root. Rather, create additional regular users to log into your Instance. 

1. Run the following command to create a new user, named `scaler`: 
    ```
    adduser scaler
    ```
    Answer the questions, starting with the account password. Make sure to use a strong password and optionally fill in any of the other information. Confirm the response to each question by pressing Enter.

> 2. Add the users to the **superdoers** group (sudo) to be able to launch administrative tasks from this user, without the need to login as `root`.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Add the users to the **superdoers** group (sudo) to be able to launch administrative tasks from this user, without the need to log in as `root`.
```

    ```
    adduser scaler sudo
    ```
    You can now run commands with administrative permissions by prefixing your command with `sudo`. For example: `sudo apt upgrade`.

> 3. Add the public SSH key information for the user by opening the file `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` in a text editor and pasting the public key: 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Add the public SSH key information for the user by opening the file `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` in a text editor and pasting the public key: 
```

---
meta:
  title: How to deploy a Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) Instance on Scaleway Elements
  description: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy, upadate and manage a Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) Instance on Scaleway Elements.
content:
  h1: How to deploy a Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) Instance on Scaleway Elements
  paragraph: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy a Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) Instance on Scaleway Elements.
tags: Ubuntu instance setup server 
  - compute
dates:
  validation: 2021-12-02
  posted: 2021-12-02
---

[Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/) is one of the most popular Linux distributions. 

> First released in 2004, Ubuntu whose name is based on an ancient African word meaning ‘humanity to others’, became quickly the favourite distributon for users around the world, mostly because it is easy to install and use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First released in 2004, Ubuntu whose name is based on an ancient African word meaning ‘humanity to others’, became quickly the favourite Linux distributon of users around the world, mostly because it is easy to install and use. 
```

> Ubuntu is developed and maintained by the company [Canonical](https://canonical.com/) and a [large community](https://loco.ubuntu.com/). They commercial and community teams release new versions of the distribution every six months and collaborate to produce a sigle, high quality relase with long term support (LTS) every two years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ubuntu is developed and maintained by the company [Canonical](https://canonical.com/) and a [large community](https://loco.ubuntu.com/). Their commercial and community teams release new versions of the distribution every six months and collaborate to produce a single, high quality release with long term support (LTS) every two years.
```

> In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy an Instance with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) from the Scaleway console and configure it so you can host your apps and websites on it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy an Instance with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) from the Scaleway console and configure it for hosting your apps and websites. 
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> - You have [registered a valid payment method](/console/my-account/how-to/manage-billing-information/)

Reviewer: I don't remember us putting this in the requirements before, though I guess it is true and makes me wonder if it should also be in some of our other tutorials?

Author: ```suggestion
```

- You have knowledge about some [basic Linux commands](/docs/dedibox/dedicated-servers/reference-content/basic-linux-commands/)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

</Message>

## Deploying your Ubuntu Linux Instance from the Scaleway console

> 1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the side menu. The Instances main screen displays. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the console side menu. The [Instances creation page](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers/) displays. 
```

2. Click **Create an Instance**. The Instances creation wizard displays. 

3. Configure your Instance:
    * Choose an Availability Zone
        * An Availability Zone refers to the geographical location in which your Instance will be created.
    * Select the Instance type
        * Scaleway provide different Instance types, designed for specific use cases. Choose the configuration that fits your requirements.
    * Choose an image for your instance
        * Select the **Ubuntu 20.04 Focal Fossa** image from the **OS images** tab.
    * Configure the storage options

>         * For the ease of this tutorial, leave the default storage options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * For the ease of this tutorial, leave the default storage options in place.
```

    * Enter a name and optional tags
        * Tags can help to organzie your Instances

>     * Check your SSH key displays in the list of keys authorized to access the Instance 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Check your [SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/) displays in the list of keys authorized to access the Instance 
```

>     * Click **Create a new Instance** to lauch the Instance creation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Click **Create a new Instance** to create the Instance. 
```

Once your Instance is ready, it displays in the list of your Instances. 

## Logging into the root account

<Message type="tip">

The `root` account is the admin user on Linux systems and has full administrative priviledges.

> Given this fact, it is not recommended to use the `root` account on a regular basis, a malicious command executed as `root` can cause damages to the system, even by accident. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is not recommended to use the `root` account on a regular basis. A malicious command executed as `root` can damage the system, even by accident. 
```

> It is therefore recommended to create a reguar user for daily operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We therefore recommend that you create a regular user account for daily operations. The steps for doing this are outlined [later in this tutorial](#adding-regular-users-on-ubuntu).
```

</Message>

> 1. Click your Instance name on the Instances list. Your instance information displays. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click your Instance name on the Instances list. Your Instance's information displays. 
```

2. Navigate to the **SSH command** section and click **Copy** to copy the command into the clipboard. 
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-instance-information-ssh.png" />

3. Open a terminal and paste the command in the terminal:
    ```
     ssh root@your_instance_id
    ```
    <Message type="tip">

    A warning about host authenticity appears during the first connection to the Instance. Accept it to proceed.

    </Message>

## Updating your system

> Ubuntu uses the [Advanced Packaging Tool (APT)](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/package-management) to mange its more than 60.000 precompiled software packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ubuntu uses the [Advanced Packaging Tool (APT)](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/package-management) to mange its 60,000+ pre-compiled software packages.
```

The APT package index is collection of available packages and generated the repositories defined in the file `/etc/apt/sources.list`, and from the directory `/etc/apt/sources.list.d`. 

> 1. Run the follwoing command to update the APT package index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to update the APT package index:
```

    ```
    apt update
    ```

2. Upgrade the packages already installed on your Instance to the latest version available in Ubuntu's repositories by running the following command:
    ```
    apt upgrade 
    ```

To install additonal software packages, use the `apt install` command:
```
apt install packagename
```

<Message type="tip">

> For more information about how to use the APT package manager, run the following command: `apt help`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about how to use the APT package manager, run the following command: `apt help`, or refer to our documentation on [how to manage packages](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/dedibox/dedicated-servers/how-to/manage-packages/).
```

</Message>

## Adding regular users on Ubuntu 

> As mentioned before, the connection to your Instance as root user is not recommended. Therefore, create additional regular users to log into your instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously mentioned, we do not recommend always connecting to your Instance as root. Rather, create additional regular users to log into your Instance. 
```

1. Run the following command to create a new user, named `scaler`: 
    ```
    adduser scaler
    ```

>     Answer the questions, starting with the account password. Make sure to use a strong password and optionally fill in any of the other information. Confirm each question by pressing Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Answer the questions, starting with the account password. Make sure to use a strong password and optionally fill in any of the other information. Confirm the response to each question by pressing Enter.
```

>     Answer the questions, starting with the account password. Make sure to use a strong password and optionally fill in any of the other information. Confirm the response to each question by pressing Enter.

Reviewer 2: step 2?

Author: ```suggestion
2. Answer the questions, starting with the account password. Make sure to use a strong password and optionally fill in any of the other information. Confirm the response to each question by pressing Enter.
```
